The second step is a 15-minute oral examination. Before this examination
the following should have been prepared:
• Answers to all assignments on a separate paper. (Not to be handed
in.)
• MATLAB program that can instantaneously reproduce the results, and
with as many constants as possible analytically defined.
• Relevant plots, transfer functions and state space models should be
easily retrievable in your MATLAB program. (Hint: Look into dividing
the program into cells. See MATLAB help on cell dividers.)
• The students should be logged into a computer with the MATLAB
program ready to run before the examination starts.
• The code generated by correct input to the lab3robot program (see
below).
Note that the assignments should be solved numerically in MATLAB unless
they explicitly request an 


Preparation
To be able to complete the project more easily the answers to the following
questions need to be understood.
• What is the cross-over frequency and how can it be found in a Bode
plot?
G(iw), one of the y-values
• What is the phase-margin and how can it be found in a Bode plot?
phase is y of frekvenssvar

• What is the amplitude-margin and how can it be found in a Bode plot?
other Bode plot.

• How to derive the errors e0 and e1?
|output-input|

• How is the cross-over frequency, bandwidth, and rise time related?
Frekvenssvar and bandwith in Bode, Rise time - first part of plot. 

• How is the overshoot, phase margin, amplitude margin and stability
related?
Overshoot - how muxh "wrong on the other side" 
Phase margin - ???
amplitude margin - ??? 
stability - How much it oscillates around its final value (output)

• Concerning a lead-lag controller:
– How does the design parameter β affect the phase margin?
– How does the design of the lag-part affect the design of the lead-
controller?
– Which frequency should the lead-lag controller mainly be designed
for?
– How are τD and τI usually defined?
– What effect does the parameter γ have and what is the effect of
setting γ to zero?
Must read about lead-lag!

• What more information is contained in a state space model than in a
transfer function?
Transfer function:
tag y(t) och u(t)
Gör laplace 
Y(s)=G(s)F(s)
G(s)= Transfer function 
state space ???

• What is the main difference between input-output feedback and state
feedback?
Guess: It is about whether the steering mechanism is the reaction of the output vs input or if the steering is only based in the state (the momentane output)

• Why can it be interesting to plot the sensitivity function? What infor-
mation can be found in the sensitivity plot?
It can show the stability and how large the changes in input need to be.

• What is a model error? What problems can a model error cause?
The error of the model (mmodels are not always the same as reality)

• What is the robustness criterion and what does it guarantee?
Some requeriments about derivative etc. guarantes a good enough output in the end.

3 Exercises
3.1 Modeling


he variables are defined as
u - voltage
θL - robot arm angle
θm - motor axle angle
Ia - motor current
T - torqueθL
Table 1: Desciptions and definitions of constants in Figure 2
Constant Description Value
Lm Induction 2
Rm Resistance 21
b Friction coefficient 1
J Moment of inertia see below
Kτ Material constant 38
Km Material constant 0.5
n Gearing factor 1/20
4
